hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and this is my review of the asus ux305
on it was announced I think its specs
well I think it looks good and it's made
by Asus a very reputable company so I
was really excited to give it a shot
now I want to preface this review with
one note there is a twin to this machine
called the g5 0-1 and that is very
similarly spec it's just aesthetically a
little different it's black and red it's
got some red LEDs but for the most part
if you're interested in the g50 one this
review of the UX 5:01 will probably
cover you alright let's do this this is
a pretty plain box considering that the
notebook is from their more premium line
but the unit here has a 2.6 gigahertz i7
a 4k IPS touchscreen a gtx 960m 16 gigs
of ram and 512 gigs of storage all of
this for $1,500
underneath the notebook there are three
compartments and Asus gives you an
Ethernet dongle mini display to VGA
adapter cleaning cloth some straps for
the AC adapter some pamphlets and AC
adapter itself you may not use some of
the stuff but they always throw it in
because that's just how ACC rolls the
top of the notebook is aluminum and like
the ux305 it has a brushed radial
pattern but this time it's more of a
subtle gray color
the ACS logo itself is plastic now one
thing I really like about the brushed
finish is that fingerprints do not show
up easily on the surface the bottom of
the notebook is also aluminum there's
two down firing speakers on the left and
right here and four rubber feet that are
really grippy now instead of a radial
finish like the top the bottom panel has
a more linear brushed finish same thing
though fingerprints don't show up easily
here's a close-up at the bottom if
you're watching this in 4k you can
probably see the finish but if you're
watching this in like 240p well then my
footage won't help you you just have to
trust me
and this is a close-up of the top lid
with that radial finish
the UX 501 is reasonably thin it's
definitely one of the thinner 15-inch
Windows based notebooks at 0.81 inches
but it's still a little thicker than a
15 inch retina MacBook Pro the build
quality and design are really solid and
it does feel durable the edges of the
main body around the keyboard have a
chamfer to it it reminds me of the edges
of the iPhone 5 and I actually really
like this design feature it kind of
removes the sharp edges of the device
where you'd be like resting your wrists
and stuff and it gives it some style you
can remove the bottom plate there's some
t6 screws here around the edge and you
got to remove two rubber feet for the
last two screws inside over here you
have the Samsung SM 951 SSD this is a
super-fast Drive that we'll get to in a
bit and over here there's 8 gigs of ram
that you can remove the other 8 gigs are
soldered on board but you can't go
higher than 16 gigs anyway so this is
more of a replacement thing instead of
an upgrading thing the battery here is a
96 watt hour battery now they do make a
variant of this notebook with a smaller
45 watt hour battery to make room for a
second drive but I'll show you later you
really want to get the bigger battery
the length and the width are pretty
average for a 15-inch Windows machine
but it is a little heavier than I
thought it would be judging by its looks
it's not that it's a heavy notebook but
Asus markets this device is a pretty
sleek and portable gaming machine and it
just feels heavier than you think it
would be on the right side we have a
headphone jack SD card slot and a pair
of USB 3 ports the SD card does stick
out quite a bit when you insert it like
over half the card juts out so you want
to be careful with that on the left side
there is a power connection mini
DisplayPort and an HDMI 1.4 sadly it's
not 2.0 so if you use this HDMI port for
4k output you're going to be stuck at 30
Hertz and lastly there's one more USB 3
slot now supposedly the notebook has an
option to support Thunderbolt 2 on the
mini DisplayPort now I tried connecting
it to my Thunderbolt Drive couldn't get
it to work so maybe this unit doesn't
have that option installed I'm not sure
I tried to use the mini DisplayPort to
connect this notebook to my monitor but
I got some weird artifacts I tried a
couple different cables and even a
different monitor but the artifacts are
always there so my guess is that it's
more of a driver thing but I don't think
this will be a normal problem long-term
the HDMI connection works properly but
again it's 30 Hertz at 4k so yeah it's
not very useful to me the keyboard has a
number pad which is a nice addition but
the overall keyboard positioning gets
shifted because of this you can see that
all the keys are kind of shifted over to
the left and the directional keys have a
weird position as well I was hitting the
up arrow pretty often when I was trying
to press shift but over time I got used
to it and I think most people will as
well the keystrokes feel good there's
plenty of travel and it's pretty tactile
but you do need a little more force to
depress the keys than a lot of other
notebooks that I've used and in case
you're wandering the black dot pattern
you see on the top of the keyboard is
not like a speaker or a fan grill or
anything it's just dots printed on as a
design I should also mention that the
backlighting has three brightness levels
even at the max setting it's kind of dim
but it gets the job done the trackpad is
surprisingly not horrible it's glass it
has a good texture and clicking feels
pretty good I complain about Windows
trackpads a lot and even though this
one's not perfect I am content with it
and at the very least this one doesn't
do that thing where the cursor jumps
around randomly so my books this is
actually a pretty decent trackpad and
the webcam it seems to work fine so all
I know is that it's better than the 12
inch macbook webcam but yeah 720p and it
works alright let's talk a little bit
about this 4k screen first color
accuracy isn't great out of the box
after calibration looked better but I
still found it to have like a slight
greeny yellow tint then secondly and
more importantly this is one of the most
reflective glossy screens I've ever seen
and it was really hard to film the
screen in regular daylight so I want to
apologize up front for this now when
you're not in a brightly lit environment
the screen isn't bad it's an IPS panel
3840 by 2160 touch screen very vibrant
colors viewing angles are good because
it's an IPS but the brightness isn't
quite there so when you combine a not so
bright screen with a bunch of
reflections it can get really hard to
see things in brightly lit rooms in this
shot here you can see the issue clearly
it's a bright window and the reflection
on the UX 501 is pretty fierce the
MacBook has a brighter screen and it has
an anti-reflective coating so it's
noticeably reduced it also costs $1000
more but bottom line is the reflection
struggle is pretty real on the UX 501
at the bottom of the screen hinge you
can see that there's an exhaust vent
this design works really well
functionally and it keeps the aesthetics
clean so you don't see dents on the back
or the side and stuff the 501 is nearly
signed a tile it's around 20 decibels
but when the fans kick in during renders
are gaming it's about 34 or 35 decibels
it's audible but it's relatively quiet
for a gaming notebook I use the Fleur
one for some thermals and I ran some
gaming benchmarks for about 30 minutes
before getting this footage the UX 501
is on the left and the 15 inch retina
MacBook is on the right both of these
notebooks have similar temperatures at
around 45 degrees Celsius at its hottest
point so they have very similar cooling
mechanics and even the fan sound pretty
similar
I think ACS did a really good job
cooling the UX 501 quietly the AC
adapter is 120 watts it's pretty average
size and weight but because it's 120
watts this thing gets really hot during
games like 50 degrees Celsius hot I
generally don't like down firing
speakers I find the sound quality and
the volume really depend on the surface
that you place the notebook on so if you
put the 501 on a table the speaker sound
okay and they can get reasonably loud
when you put it on your lap because the
sound gets projected down towards the
ground or directly into your thighs it
kind of muffles the sound and it just
makes everything worse
Asus has the ice power audio software
but when you're listening from speakers
the different settings don't really make
much of a difference alright let's talk
about performance so remember that
samsung drive that sm9 5-1 this thing is
fast it's faster than my desktop drive
it's faster than my 2014 MacBook Drive
and it's similar in speed to the 2015
MacBook Drive review of that coming up
soon so when you combine a supersonic
drive with quad-core processor and a
fattie GPU you get a really good 4k
video editing machine scrubbing around
is snappy and let's don't blog it down
very much all in all it's a very
well-balanced setup for mobile video
editing you just don't want to do it
outdoors on a sunny day renders are also
pretty quick takes about 45 minutes for
a 10 minute 4k video and I actually feel
like this is one of the best Windows
notebooks I've ever seen for 4k video
editing and if you want you can always
hook up an external you ASP Drive for
more complex edits playing games in 4k
is a different ball of wax I think we
just have to accept that mobile gaming
in 4k isn't going to happen with
this generation of hardware I mean it
runs but for any modern game the frame
rates are just really crappy witcher 3
and 4k gets around 10 to 15 frames per
second with stuff on high but running it
at 1080p gets around 45 50 frames per
second but if you want to get over 60
frames per second you want to drop the
quality down you can comfortably hit
6070 frames per second if you go into
medium settings for 1080p and on a side
note I highly recommend this game I only
played it for a bit but it's really cool
if you're into RPGs less demanding games
do really well on this thing at 1080p
like you can easily hit 80 frames per
second on basically anything like dota
League csgo Diablo all these things run
really well at 1080p lastly I want to
touch on battery life so they claim six
hours for regular use and I got pretty
close around five hours doing some work
and some web browsing for hours in a bit
for watching movies with screen at max
brightness and volume at about a third
and I got about an hour and 15 minutes
playing games at 1080p with the screen
also at max brightness volume at around
1/3 obviously this isn't a perfect
notebook but is it worth you spending
1,500 bucks let's do a recap the UX 501
has a good quality aluminum build the 4k
touch screen has nicely saturated colors
but it's not very bright and the glossy
finish is really reflective the keyboard
is positioned a little weird because of
the number pad but when you get used to
it it's comfortable to use the trackpad
has no physical buttons but for a
windows-based notebook it's pretty good
inside this guy you have 16 gigs of RAM
which is more than enough for gamers and
a good amount for video editing
you get 512 gigs of extremely fast
storage which once again is really nice
for video editing speakers here and they
sound okay but they're definitely not
all about that bass the quad core i7
runs at 2.6 gigahertz and a combo is
nicely with the gtx 960m which is not
the fastest mobile video card for games
but it's very respectable and it keeps
temperatures manageable and there's a 96
watt hour battery here that gives the
notebook a pretty unexceptional battery
life for $1500 you get some pretty good
tech in a nice-looking package now there
are some problems the super reflective
screen the battery life that isn't that
great some speakers that are pretty
mediocre and the whole package is a
little bit heavier than if you'd like it
to be but if you hear things that you
don't care about or you just kind of get
over them then this is actually a pretty
good pickup that's the end of the review
I hope you guys liked it and if you did
give me some thumbs if you didn't give
me some of the bad thumbs and if you
loved it hit that subscribe button it's
been nice and I'll see you guys next
time